Friends here we're implementing simple Python Bhutto,
three menu-driven skip to perform different actions on EC2 instance,
be clear, we are implementing this menu-driven skip to work on one single EC2 instance.
Now let me open my sublime text editor first.
So I'm going to import moto three.
Let me save it as like Minow driven script on EC2 actions.
Now, first let me create our AWS management console.
So here I'm going to create that using Bhutto 3.What session?
Session, then Profile Name,
I am taking EC2 dollar per.
Then I am creating my EC2 Console.
So I'm going to create my EC2 Console by using both the objects,
I mean client and resource.
I want to show you by using Buddha ways.
So EC2 Console using resource.
So simply AWS management console.
Resource service name is EC2.
Then regime name equals two,
US East One, I'm selecting ten.
Let me create EC2 Console using client object as well.
So instead of resource just declined.
So first we will implement the script menu-driven script using resource first.
So before that, our menu-driven script is something like in this way,
let me show you that.
While to say I'm printing.
This is scraped performs
the following actions on EC2 instance.
Let me provide the different options.
So I'm writing the first option as oppose to start, then second, stop.
Terminate. Let me write the restart.
Yeah, I will take simply terminate.
And let me take four types now simply exit,
exit from your script.
Now, let me read the option.
So after displaying these options and just I want to read them.
So I am taking option variable equals to simply in digital input, Enter your option.
So what are the option you won't be until you can enter it.
Now, in case if you're opting out of in the range 1234,
then I want to say your option is not a valid option.
In case if it is option one,
I want to start my EC2 instance.
If it is option two,
I want to stop and then I want to animate.
If option is for, then I want to simply exit.
So simply I am taking if it were option equals to one,
then here I want to implement skip just to start over EC2 instance.
So I'm displaying starting EC2 instance.
Then in case if your option equals to two,
then just I want to write stopping EC2 instance.
Then if option equals to three,
and then I want to terminate.
So simply terminating EC2 instance.
Then if option equals to four,
then I want to exit from us script,
so simply sys dot exit.
So we are using cease modelling.
Let me import that module in your script.
That's a incase if option is out of these 1234,
then I want to say print.
Your option is invalid.
Please try once again.
That's it.
So this is our script.
Let me save it. And I'm opening my command line.
No, let me enter into a Bhutto transcripts.
So here we have our menu-driven scope.
Let me run it.
See the output I'm entering four, it is exiting.
And mentoring support some two,
then it is going stopping EC2 instance once identity showing you what Meno,
then let me enter four, it is exiting.
But before going to start,
stop or restudy How To Know weekends tells you how
to start or which instance you have to restart our stop or terminate.
So let me open our menu-driven scrape.
So in our scrape,
so after reading your option based on what option here,
I'm taking some instance ID equals to simply
input EC2 instance ID.
Let me copy this line and I want to paste these in each and every if condition.
So let me just to avoid indentation errors.
So here also I need to paste it.
So let me write one more line while exiting.
Just I want to say,
thank you for using the script.
Now let me save it.
Now let me run four.
Yes, it's working.
It is asking entity where EC2 instance ID.
Let me get one of the EC2 instance ID from my AWS or cone.
So this is my easy to console here how some number of instances,
let me take one of the instance.
So I am taking this one.
So then priority would instance ID.
Then it is displaying starting EC2 instance.
But if you refresh it still,
it is stopped because we don't have any logic to
him to start your EC2 instance inside of our script.
Then how we can implement that logic?
C, if it is option equals to one, you have to start,
but to start your EC2 instance,
you don't have any logic here.
We didn't implement that.
So now we have both the consoles, I mean,
using resource and using client for our EC2 Console.
Then on that particular console,
you need to work with one EC2 instance.
No, let me open your resource documentation of your EC2.
So let me click on EC2 Console.
I mean you see two surveys.
And first let me go with the resource option.
In resource, we know we have three set of operations.
First setup operation is to modify our co-create new ec2 service or your EC2 options,
you never to console.
Then second is just to work with
the particular ec2 service or volume or tank to work with
one single EC2 instance are to work with
one EC2 volume for that second set of operations,
third set-top operations to collect existing information about
all your EC2 instances or volumes or image ID, right?
Ru Er Qie pays. Now our requirement is to walk with one EC2 instance,
then that option is there in a second list.
See that there is an instance.
So by using this, you can create particularly EC2 instance object.
Now see that first thing.
After taking your instance ID,
you need to create your particular instance object.
Now I'm creating my required instance object,
taking lengthy variable name,
but you don't need to take this lengthy variable name equals to from your EC2 Console,
EC2 Console using resource object dot simply instance,
just to provide you an instance ID, that's it,
so that it will create your required EC2 instance object.
Now here, just to be created object,
then what are the operations are available on this object?
Then we haul BAR operation in your Python right on your object.
See that?
Yeah, sorry.
No, let me save it and run.
What happened? We learned that line.
Yeah, I forgot to close rate. Sorry.
I forgot to close parenthesis.
Now let me run it. Suppose start one.
Then some instance idea I am giving.
All happen.
Why do showing euro, let
me
capitalize.
I have given smartly, sorry.
No, let me run your script.
Suppose start, then I'm giving our instance ID.
Then see that whatever the instance you created,
whatever the instance object you created on the object,
these are the available operations.
So as of now what I need,
I need to start or stop or terminate options.
Go and search here somewhere,
you will get your acquaint option C. There is a stock option.
That means on your created objects simply use dot star so that your instance will
start or stop or terminate. That's it.
If you want to reboot it,
yes, you can reboot it.
So you can add one more option, right?
C. So now, simply open your menu-driven skip.
Now you want to start right?
So if you want to start simply whatever the object he
has been created for that just add dot.
That is a method, let's say.
Now the same way you how to use first stop optional.
So now let me copy
this. Now let me come in.
These are DIR operations.
So once if we do the air operations so that you will get the
available options on your object created object.
Now, my request aside my required instance,
object dot stop in case if you want to terminate.
So here also you have to create your easy to object first.
Then after that terminating rights simply,
you are my required instance.
Object dot terminate.
That's now let me save it.
I see that I am running.
I want to start some easy to instance.
Then let me get my EC2 instance ID.
I'm doing starting EC2 instance.
So it is starting done just to go and refresh so
that you are going to see change as pending means now it is going to get running status.
So after sometime it will get into running status.
That's it.
Now let me terminate one of my EC2 instance.
So let me take last instance.
So this is my intensity.
So let me rerun your already we are on our scripted self-rate.
So let me take option has three No, no.
I want to admit this EC2 instance.
See that, refresh it and see that your lost intensity shutting down.
That's it. So now let me exit from my script.
So be clear on this.
If you want to work with only one particular EC2 instance using resource object,
what you heard, please.
First thing you how to create your instance object.
Where it is, yeah, instance object simply on your console,
there is an operation called instance for that you have to provide
your instance ID so that you are going to create your instance object.
Not only for instance, suppose if you want to work with particular volume,
then dot volume, then volume ID.
If you want to work with one key pair,
then dot you are keeping.
If you want to work with some image ID,
then dot image, then image id,
how to prove it so that you are going to get
that particular service object for adoption by using DR. operation,
you will get the list of operations.
Nuts it, right. Fine.
So this is by using resource method,
resource object we are implementing or menu-driven script.
Now let me show you using client.
Now let me open your EC2 client.
Then I will show you how to use your required options on your instances.
Let me click on client.
Here, see anywhere claim you are having all the options under one set only.
So just to go down somewhere,
you will find your required operations.
Suppose if you want to reboot,
just to start with the reboot,
some very her reboot instances see here,
and you don't have a separate operations to
work with one single instance are multiple instances.
If you want to work with either single or multiple instances,
you have to select only one option.
Using that only, using that operation,
you can work with either single or multiple incentives are volumes,
or you are hosts.
Or your image ids are your key pays, whatever it may be.
Same way, just go down somewhere.
You will get start and stop.
See start instances, stop instances,
let me open start instances.
See that start in stances.
Then there is argument called Instance ID.
So in this instance IDs,
if you have only one single instance in your hand,
just provide that instance in this list as a one value so
that this will execute and will stop or start your EC2 instance.
In case if you have multiple instances in your hand,
then just provide all instances as a list of values in this place,
in place of string, so that it is going to execute on multiple incentives are time.
So this is the advantage with client anymore.
Resource.
You have to execute your options on one by one instance.
But whereas in your resource,
in your client, you can able to execute,
you are option either on multiple instances,
are one instance at a time.
That's it.
So that is the advantage.
So friends, I am attaching the script.
How to use Klein to method to start and stop
and restart or terminate your EC2 instance are instances.
Just to go through that 30 can understand.
Ok. Thank you.